MCRPServer
==========

A custom Minecraft server with extended functionality, such as RPG mechanics.

License
-------

> Copyright (C) 2010 Furyhunter
>
> This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
> the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
> Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
> version.
>
> This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
> ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
> FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
> details.
>
> You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
> this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Building
--------

Simply open the project and _Clean & Build_ it in NetBeans. Alternatively, you
can just use the included ant build script.

Configuring
-----------

First, you will need to insert `minecraft-server.jar` in to the `lib/` folder of
the package.  We are not legally allowed to distribute this, however it may be
downloaded freely from [the official Minecraft site](http://minecraft.net
"Minecraft").

Second, you will need a `server_level.dat` as this server will not automatically
generate one.  We strongly reccommend using [Omen](http://omened.tumblr.com
"Omen") to create a world just to your needs.

The server will create a configuration file called `mcrp.conf` on first run.
You can configure the server by modifying the properties here.

To use the server, you will need a MySQL database to store local user data, such
as characters and admin status.  The properties for these are:

 * `database.host` - The (remote) host of the MySQL server.
 * `database.port` - The port to communicate to the MySQL server on.
 * `database.name` - The database to use.
 * `database.user` - The username to use when logging in to the MySQL server.
 * `database.pass` - The password to use when logging in to the MySQL server.

There are other properties that can be configured at your leisure.  Most have
fairly self-explanatory names, so experiment and see what you like.

To setup the database, use the SQL dump located in the `sql` folder of the
source tree.  Run this on an empty database and it will build the schema for a
clean, unmodified world.

Contributing
------------

Feel free to submit _bug reports_, _patches_, or even _pull requests_ from a
personal fork on GitHub.  All will be reviewed by project admins.
